I can't just give up and
let everyone die, right?
I have to fight!
You wanna destroy
the Gadoll factory?
The guy's lost it.
You been huffing
Gadoll jenkem or what?
All of that build‐up
for that? Dumbass.
Jeez, Kaburagi, you back
there pregaming or something?
Look around you.
What's crazy is the system
that put us in here.
The only sane thing is
to do what I please.
[TURKEY]
Hmph!
You wanna get yourself
killed, go do it
and leave the rest
of us out of it.
[KABURAGI] We're more
than cogs in a machine,
and if the system refuses
to let us live free,
there's no reason
to let the system live.
[gasps]
Wow, edgy.
Shoulda found a deeper hole
to throw you down.
Right?
Wait, Boss?
[laughs]
Pickin' a fight with
the whole damn system.
That sounds fun as hell!
Boss, just hold on a second.
Going along with
this is suicide!
[DONATELLO]
Shut it, wimp!
We might not get another chance
to shake things up like this!
Hey, guys?
Hate to interrupt, but can
you think for a little bit?
We have absolutely no chance
of getting out of this prison.
There's a lake above us.
Climb the poop chutes and you
catch a payload on its way down.
Take a personnel tunnel,
the game police catch you.
So what exactly do you
think we're gonna do?
[KABURAGI]
We get in through the game.
Everyone logs into Deca‐dence.
We can use the avatars
to infiltrate the factory.
Sorry to tell you, that's
not gonna work either.
There's an invisible
barrier around the factory
to keep out the rank‐and‐file,
which activates when it comes
in contact with a chip.
It instantly log us out
if we try to step across it,
and a Tanker would
drop dead on the spot.
Screw it, we can just climb up
the tunnels from here!
Have you been paying
any attention?
[DONATELLO]
You sassin' me?
What if I could get you
an unchipped avatar?
When a player gets banned
from Deca‐dence,
they terminate the account,
pull the avatar's chip,
and destroy the avatar itself.
If you know that much,
I'm guessing you know that the
game police handle the disposal,
and there's nothing
we can do to about them.
That's true, once they've
picked up the body,
but there's one avatar
they never found.
Mine's still in one piece.
[DONATELLO]
What makes you so sure?
[KABURAGI] Minato and I
have known each other
for a long time.
No way he's not keeping
it stashed somewhere.
You mean, the commander
of Deca‐dence?
That seems like a pretty flimsy
rationale if you ask me.
Nah, Minato would do that.
Minato would definitely do that.
Uh... Uh?
For whatever reason,
you three all seem oddly
certain about this.
[KABURAGI]
It's the truth.
But even so, that doesn't mean
he'll be willing to tell us
where he's hidden it.
If he has it, then
finding it's no big deal.
Fine, I'm in.
Lemme go figure out
where your corpse is.
We're doing this.
You wanna back out,
now's the time.
Hah! Yeah, like hell.
You know how much
I like to party!
It's not happening without me
anyway, so you're welcome.
[sighs]
Well, knowing me, I'd just
be a liability out there.
You think we're lettin'
you walk away from all this?
Huh?
Of course not, sir, I don't
know what came over me!
Your grip is very strong.
Let's get my avatar back.
[JILL]
Commander!
How ya been?
Hmm. Why am I getting
so many of these recently?
[JILL] So what's all this
I hear about you having
some decommissioned avatars
stashed somewhere?
[MINATO]
Hm?
Hmmmm...
How would I know?
If you wanna gossip,
you called the wrong guy.
[JILL]
Don't be so cold,
I'm just trying to make some
friendly conversation‐‐
So predictable.
[sighs] What were they
going for, anyway?
Dammit.
I should probably
shuffle things around
even if they were bluffing,
[buzzer]
It never ends!
Ah, Commander.
Pardon my intrusion.
Oh?
[HUGIN] I realize you're
not on duty right now.
However, a recent tip compels me
to impose on your time.
With that said...
[MUGIN]
Pupipi.
[HUGIN]
...please come with me.
[JILL]
Okay, Try not to draw attention.
Act natural and do your best
to look like you belong.
[DONATELLO] Listen up,
Sark, she's talkin' to you.
[SARKOZY]
Uh. Sure thing, Boss!
[KABURAGI]
She's talking to you.
[DONATELLO]
When I want your opinion,
I'll knock it outta yer face!
[TURKEY] Holy hell,
this was a terrible idea.
Cool. Let's go, team.
The gate just up ahead
of here will take us
to the storage facility.
[TURKEY]
Huh...
They really do not want
any randos walkin' in there.
[DONATELLO]
So we're here.
Now how do we get
through this thing?
Whoa. Hey!
[gasps]
How long are you all gonna
stand there staring?
I'm not being cute, fellas.
We've got places to be.
[DONATELLO]
There's something goin' on here.
[KABURAGI]
How do you know so much, Jill?
Who are you?
Nobody. I'm just another bug.
[HUGIN]
Commander.
There's a rumor you're in
possession of certain contraband
and storing it in this facility.
My investigation discovered
an access event
in the log that does
place you here recently.
An in‐person investigation
will reveal the truth.
Please do cooperate.
Spare us both some trouble.
[SARKOZY]
Ohohoho...
Good gravy, they forget
the ceiling and floor
when they built this place?
I never knew a
thing about all this.
[DONATELLO laughs]
Fall down and you're real dead.
[JILL]
What were you expecting?
We're standing in
a room built to store
literally every single
functioning player character
in the entire game.
Obviously it's gonna be big.
Yeah, so, what makes you think
we're gonna find
the one we came for?
"Find's" not the right word.
I already know exactly
where we're going.
For the moment,
just step outside here and
get ready to hitch a ride.
Sark, Turkey.
Grab onto that, please.
[SARKOZY]
Yeah.
See, I got this thing with
high places where I kinda‐‐
Shut up and go, drunky!
[screams]
[DONATELLO]
Off to a great start.
[JILL] It's going to stop when
you get to the next block.
Hop off and keep an eye on
the access room door above you.
If anyone tries to get in our
way, that's where they'll be,
so tell me if you see anybody.
Understood?
Yeah, got it.
[JILL] I'm tracking all
the boxes within the facility.
Follow my lead and I'll
get you to Kaburagi's avatar.
Stay sharp and listen close,
I'll tell you where to jump.
That's gonna be
a pain in the ass.
Isn't the whole point of this
thing to bring the boxes to you?
[JILL]
The whole point of our thing
is not to let them
know we're here.
Leaving an access request
in the logs is a big tipoff.
C'mon, like anyone's
reading the logs.
[JILL]
You wanna hop off here.
If you miss any of
my instructions,
we're gonna lose a lot of time,
so please kindly refrain
from talking when I'm talking.
Ha! Sounds like fun!
[JILL] Stick to that
scaffold for three blocks,
and grab the box you see
coming from your right.
Just a nip. Here we go.
[TURKEY]
We got company.
Minato showed up, along
with frickin' Hugin himself.
What gives?
[KABURAGI]
We get made?
[JILL] I didn't leave
anything for them to find.
But either way, they're here.
We have to pick up the pace.
Next you need to go‐‐
[gasps]
[KABURAGI]
What is it?
[JILL] They must have just
called up our box, it's moving!
[KABURAGI]
Moving where?
[JILL] I've marked the target
and it should be tracking
in your visuals.
We're improvising from here;
don't let it out of your sight!
[KABURAGI]
There it is.
Damn!
[DONATELLO] All right, Kabu,
what the hell do we do now?
Stay on it.
The plan falls apart without it.
We have to get to that box
before it gets to them!
Hah! Sounds good!
[screams]
I heard a sound
I shouldn't have.
I believe that calls
for an inspection.
Mind the controls
until I return.
[caws]
Now, then...
Shut it now!
[SARKOZY]
Sorry.
[muffled laughter]
Huh? Aww, I beefed
that one real bad.
Nothing, but I'm sure I heard it
coming from somewhere close by.
You've been a real pantload.
Well that's dealt with!
[JILL] Good job,
we're almost home free.
You're in range of it now.
Hah! Don't sound so surprised!
[KABURAGI]
Good, now we need to secure it.
Is this a tutorial?
[JILL]
What happened?
[KABURAGI]
Donatello's out.
‐‐[JILL] You gotta keep moving!
‐‐[DONATELLO ] Shit!
[KABURAGI]
I know.
[JILL]
What's the problem now?
[KABURAGI]
Hugin is out here with me.
[JILL groans]
We're running out of time!
It's now or never, Kaburagi!
Do it!
We won't get another shot.
[HUGIN]
Now then, Commander.
If you would be so kind
as to open that box.
Of course.
Right.
Well, please keep
such indulgences private
and off the clock.
What's going on?
[HUGIN] Sorry, I didn't
quite catch that.
[MINATO]
Pardon me.
I'm talking to myself.
[DONATELLO] Man, you had me
losin' it at the end there,
I gotta say.
So this liquor really is
all you're good for, huh?
Jeez, I'm really sorry you guys.
The fact that Hugin showed up
there is cause for concern.
Yeah, but he didn't
catch us, so screw it.
Question is,
where we gonna go from here?
Kabu just walks up
into the factory
and starts needling stuff?
[JILL]
That won't work.
He's gonna need at least
one more person with him.
I got one.
We're good.
Come on, Kurenai,
don't beat yourself up,
you're still new at this.
I can't help it.
Welding just isn't clicking,
and I'm really trying
as hard as I can.
I don't know how you got so good
at doing delicate work like that
with that right hand of yours.
[NATSUME] The boss actually
modified it for me
and made it way more responsive.
[KURENAI]
Did he really?
[KABURAGI]
Hey.
Back off you cr‐‐!
‐‐Mister Kabu?
‐‐Boss, you're back!
Been a while, huh?
[DONATELLO]
All right, maggots!
I thought it over and
decided we're gonna be
knockin' out that crap
factory way up above us.
It'll be a blast!
And you're all gonna help.
So who's with me?
[CYBORG C]
Is he being serious right now?
Nah, there's no way in hell.
[CYBORG E]
We need oxyone!
C'mon, guys, you're givin' it
way too much thought!
Look, we just gotta go in
and smash up the place!
[BUG] I don't want out
bad enough to die.
[JILL]
Can everyone hear me?
I think you could
use some context.
You spend your days here
breaking up gigantic
heaps of Gadoll shit.
And what do they do with it?
[CYBORG F]
Hey. Do we know that?
I think? Maybe?
[DONATELLO]
I mean, jeez, Jill.
We've all heard that part.
Wait, did we?
Yeah, back when
we first got here!
They use it as fuel to keep
the whole thing runnin', right?
That was a lie.
You scoop the crap
into the churns,
the churns funnel the
crap paste to a refinery,
which distills the crap
into cheap oxyone,
which they inject
into us every single day.
What?
You're shittin' me!
So I've been runnin'
on dook juice?
You're kidding, right?
Hey. Doesn't that mean
Sark's liquor's got poop in it?
[RANDOM CYBORG A] Well yeah,
did he not tell you that?
Don't do that here!
You're gonna make me‐‐
You know the truth now, and
you won't forget it if you try!
There is nothing here but shit!
The shit they drop on us, the
shit they pump into our bodies,
and us, the shit they buried!
Is this shit gonna fly
with you guys?
Hell no! I'm in, Boss!
Me too!
[CYBORG F]
Rip it up!
Let's do this!
Sounds like you all agree.
Now let's burn this
shit prison down!
[cheering]
[BUGS chant]
Burn this shit! Burn this shit!
[RANDOM CYBORG D]
Hell yes, I'm friggin' pumped!
[sighs]
[TURKEY]
You okay there?
[SARKOZY]
Huh?
Bet you could use a break.
That was a lot
to deal with, right?
Thanks for cuttin' me
some slack.
[TURKEY]
But before I can let you go,
you and I need
to have a little chat.
Huh?
[NATSUME] You found where
the Gadoll come from?
[KABURAGI]
Yeah.
I've been searching
for it since that day.
It wasn't easy,
but I tracked it down.
So the end really
is in sight now!
We gotta go tell
the Gears what you found!
Hold on!
The Gears are...
They won't be able to go.
It's just gonna be you and me.
Please listen to me.
Okay?
If we can pull this off,
there will be no more Gadoll.
But that's a very big "if."
There's no guarantee
that either of us survives.
You've faced danger before,
but this is different.
[NATSUME]
C'mon, Boss, cut it out.
Let's just skip to the part
where you tell me you
need me to do this.
What, you gonna
feel like less of a man
asking little ol'
Natsume for help, huh?
[NATSUME]
Nothing?
I know the deal!
I understand it's dangerous.
I know things could go wrong,
but if nobody else can do it,
I'm not backing down.
So yeah, Boss, I'm in.
Let's do this.
[KABURAGI] All right.
You're amazing. Really.
Uh?!
Huh? That came outta nowhere.
Sorry, buddy.
You wanna go outside
for a sec, hmm?
[JILL]
Hey, Kaburagi.
I hope I'm not catching
you at an awkward moment.
[KABURAGI] What do you
think I'm here for exactly?
[JILL] You need to
get back immediately.
Someone came to visit you.
[KABURAGI]
They did?
[GUARD]
We've brought him.
[KABURAGI]
Minato?
Hey, took you long enough.
Seriously, it was
a real pain getting here.
Yeah, sorry.
But I was just, uh...
[MINATO]
So was this present from you?
[KABURAGI]
Yeah.
Is that trying not to
make things harder for me?
You saved me.
Thanks for that.
I tried to save you
and you threw it all away!
I'm here pulling
strings for you,
then you go and pull this crap!
[KABURAGI] I can't sit
back while the system
jerks people around.
We don't deserve that.
And neither does she.
Huh? Who is "she"?
The Tanker I told you about.
Really...
You're still hung up
on some Tanker?
Get your head on straight, Kabu.
She's just a bug!
[KABURAGI]
She's more than that to me.
[MINATO]
Please, think!
The system made us.
It keeps us going.
And it's telling you that kid is
a bug that could destroy it all!
[KABURAGI] That's what it's
been saying about me, too.
[MINATO] Huh?
You know that isn't‐‐
[KABURAGI] Did you decide
to put my avatar on ice,
or was it the system's orders?
[MINATO]
Hmmm...
I wish I could understand
how you ended up this way.
Once the factory's dead,
I'm going to deactivate the
system and shut the game down.
Are you hearing
yourself right now?
[KABURAGI] We've been
spending our whole lives doing
everything the system tells us,
and it doesn't
feel right anymore.
Can you really
even call it living?
Seeing them makes me jealous.
They have to fight for
everything they've got,
but at least, nobody's
pulling their strings.
They decide for
themselves what they want.
themselves how to get it.
Why couldn't we‐‐
[MINATO
"Live the way they do"?
You really believe
that would be better.
I do.
Please, Minato.
Will you help me
make that happen?
[laughs]
Minato!
Huh? [sighs]
Seriously. Wow.
You think you're just gonna
shut the whole thing down?
Set every cyborg free to seek
out their own destiny, right?
It would be chaos.
You'd be taking
everything from everyone.
I realize people need order,
but still, for what
the system takes from us‐‐
[MINATO] There is
no order outside the system!
Think about how you got here.
Now you're ready to blow up
the Gadoll factory,
end the world as we know it,
for this idea of "freedom"?
Doesn't that mean the
system is right about you?
[KABURAGI]
No! Please, listen!
[MINATO] There are a million
ways this can go wrong for you
and one way it can go right.
Give it up.
[KABURAGI]
I can't.
[KABURAGI] Are you gonna
turn me in to the system?
[MINATO]
Is that what you want from me?
[MINATO] I thought we could
go back to how things were,
when we were partners,
with enough challenges in front
of us to keep us satisfied.
I had everything I needed, then.
[SARKOZY]
What?
No, no way I could do
everyone like that!
I'm not turning
my back on Kabu and them.
Be reasonable, Sark.
I know you're smarter
than you let on.
Smart enough to recognize
that the system always
wins in the end.
I also know that
this whole scheme
was guaranteed to crash and
burn before it ever got rolling.
'Cause from what I'm told,
the game police are
already on the move.
Guess it's the
scrapheap for us, huh?
But you have a bargaining chip.
You're the only one
the guards will listen to.
You point them to
Kaburagi and the boss,
they might be willing
to make a deal.
That way nobody else
has to die, right?
But... Hey!
I think I got a better idea.
We go tell Donatello the game
police are onto his plan!
That'll make him back down!
[TURKEY]
Are you joking?
You know he'd let 'em scrap
everyone in this place
as long as he got to murk
a few on his way out!
Ah, so, then‐‐
There's no way around it, Sark.
It's just you and me.
Nobody else can
save our friends.
What they need is a hero.
That has to be you.
I could be...
...a hero?